# lunarCraterSizeAndShape

This repository contains the code for the final project for the 2022 spring semester of Astronomy and Statistics course at Olin College Of Engineering.
Contributors on this project are: Lilly O'saurus and Riya Aggarwal

The purpose of this project is to analyze the relationship between the size and shape of lunar impact craters. Data for this project comes form the Robbins 2019 paper: A New Global Database of Lunar Impact Craters >1–2 km: Crater Locations and Sizes, Comparisons With Published Databases, and Global Analysis

## Introduction of context from our paper associated with this repository

Asteroid impacts have significantly shaped the geography and environments of terrestrial bodies in the solar system. Because of their significance in shaping terrestrial bodies like Earth, it is important to understand these events (Collins et al. 2011). Given the rarity of impact events, it is helpful to study the craters that impacts leave behind as they can provide a more readily available source of information on how to understand these events. The Earth’s tectonic plate movement recycles the Earth’s crust; this means that much of the Earth’s crater history has been erased. Because the Moon has no tectonic plates (Heiken et al. 1991), the moon better preserves the history of asteroid impacts which can give a window into Earth’s past. In this paper, we explore the relationship between the size and shape of lunar craters. Elliptical impact craters are still relatively unstudied (Collins et al. 2011), this paper serves to detail some of the features of them with the hope that this will gain us a better understanding of these structures. 
A crater is a geologic formation that occurs as the result of an impact of an asteroid or comet with a planetary body. Asteroid impacts have been responsible for significant events in our solar system’s history such as the disruption of Mars's magnetic field, the extinction of the dinosaurs, and the formation of the moon itself (Drummond et al. 2016, During et al. 2022, Asphaug et al. 2021). Thus, it is important to study asteroid impacts to better understand these events. Craters have elliptical shapes as a function of the angle of impact, the material properties of the impacted material, and the projectile size (Elbeshausen et al. 2013, Collins et. al. 2011). For our research, we will be using the database presented in Robbins’ 2019 paper. The main data parameters to do with the diameter of each crater for determining size, and the measures of ellipticity, and eccentricity to determine the shape of the crater. There are multiple diameters provided, either one diameter for a circle fit of the asteroid, or two diameters (for the major and minor axis) (Robbins 2019). 
The previous work done by Collins et. al. (2011) discussed the relationship between crater size and ellipticality based on differing models of how elliptical craters are formed. Their conclusions were that ellipticality of craters is primarily influenced by the material properties of the surface impacted and the angle of incidence of the asteroid during impact. However, they discuss how these dynamics build to the conclusion that large impact craters are more likely to be elliptical due to their impact dynamics (Collins et. al. 2011). In this paper we seek to confirm this assertion through observation of lunar structures by comparing the ellipticality with the size of the craters from the Robbins’ dataset.

